hey guys we're doing the most hateful
and invidious form of YouTube video
today the response video
everyone hates responses but all the
time well not all the time we don't even
want you to both dr. Wiesel yeah but
whatever we do you're like how we should
recorded us watching yes sometimes we
watch YouTube and we make catty remarks
and it's like well why didn't we just
record ourselves makes it upload that to
YouTube so we started watching this old
video from that vegan couple about the
perennial debate between antenatal
estándar
anti antenatal ists I mean nobody is a
pro needleless nobody not even those
Catholic people who say they are I mean
okay you got to be a really sheltered
Catholic
ooo remember Steve from high school yes
Steve who became a crackhead do you
think he should raise kids metal
crackhead Steve or crack it was a lot of
fun you really think oh you'll see I
mean unless unless you're so sheltered
that you do not no crackhead Steve
nobody feels that everyone should have
kids and I mean like the more cynical
the more terror it's not okay cynical is
the wrong word it depends in the society
or live in and and your your Vantage on
that society like what parts of it you
perceive like you know I've known people
I've known a couple different people
worked in like social housing yeah I'm
not a couple of people were crackheads
those people they they are exposed to so
much addicts behavior so much Bab if so
many so many other clients they will try
to help or chronically unemployed and
unemployable and over time they seem to
come to the worldview that like only ten
percent of humanity should reproduce you
don't agree there like about 90 percent
of people are not up to this task and
other people are like 50/50 and 6040 but
like ultimately you only gotta make the
decision for one person you got to make
the decision for you but not normally
there's no point debating it unless
crackheads Steve is your brother and now
my father had nine kids
say about eight of them are crackheads
oh I'd say I'd say of my own brothers
and sisters do I think even one of them
should have kid do what do I think I
myself should have I mean you know it's
it's a struggle we're gonna let me know
next couple years the question is can we
get settled enough in terms of having an
income and having a home and all that
stuff you want up you want to build the
nest before you lay eggs in it but sure
I would be delighted to have one one
more kid I already got one I would be
led to have one not two not three no
let's dig and you know now my girl from
the Radley she has the experience of
taking care of my daughter so you know
you know it's everything you got goes
into that one kid unless they're spaced
out by like 10 years you got a full 10
years from you two kids you can swing it
something like that
what no I was just gonna say I don't
have very much experience working and
you know working with crackhead
but um you know I did work for a
psychologist and oh yeah I saw clients
who were trying to get government
disability funds so a lot of them had
children and it was really sad reading
about their stories because I would type
up whatever my whatever the my boss
would dictate to me typing up reports
about the clients and yeah it was had so
many of them had many children was like
you know different partners and um and
they weren't mentally or financially in
a position to really raise their own
kids yeah oh yeah like you know all of
them had mental disorders it was for it
was for this this type of disability
because it was a psychologist but yeah
and I also interviewed at a foster
clinic so like basically they were in
charge of transporting children from the
foster homes to this to this location
where parents could meet with their
children for one or two hours and I
didn't I didn't get the job you know but
just seeing it as I was in the waiting
room but like waiting for the interview
just seeing like some of the reunions
was there are people who are those
medians in jail you know what I mean
yeah anyway yeah so I'm definitely not
arguing that every
so this length of the video is some
people are antenatal estándar Li aunty
aunty Nate Nate list or neutral and you
know I know
nobody is pronatalist you know but like
put it this way if you think you
shouldn't have kids probably you
shouldn't like you know you talk to
somebody like durianrider durianrider is
really set in the idea he's never gonna
have kids do you really want to talk him
down off that ledge do you really want
to be the person who convinces
durianrider to get someone pregnant or
even to adopt really you you want to
have that on your on your conscience for
the rest your life like yeah you know
yeah now we got durianrider jr. and now
now we got Jerry right are doing you
know self-important videos about how to
buy your kid matching outfits and
that would be all can you imagine his
channel would take on a whole new direct
clothing clothes shopping for your
two-year-old with durianrider I don't
write three-wheeled the three wheel
bikes for your preschooler and all that
yeah you're right so right this is a
fate we're all narrowly avoiding if you
have a crackhead Steve in your life you
don't want to convince him to have kids
and just when I've known people look you
know what that's even like my dating
life though I told you like there were
other women hitting on me right around
the same time Melissa came onto my life
and one of them said well you know like
she was really dressed of me but she
said she didn't think I'd be old
interest in her it was like well you're
probably right you know I you know I
trust your judgment and you know when I
talked to Melissa Melissa was completely
confident that this was gonna work I was
like well maybe you know what you're
talking about let's let's find out the
hard way you know taking other people's
opinion seriously is it's it's it's one
of the key crucial skills of middle age
and say as opposed to like when you're a
little kid in the schoolyard you're
saying no no you don't you're talking
about
no anything anything people say to you
is really easily refuted with thatthat
schoolyard mentality all right so this
is that vegan couple and I don't know
you get to watch us roll our eyes well
we listen to their their life-changing
advice about not have
kids in September 2014 it was a mutual
decision I'm not going to talk about the
reasons of why we had the operation
we'll link up the videos here go watch
those videos and and you will understand
more about this whole process and why we
chose to go ahead with it in this video
I want to give the perspective of a
woman who is living with a man who has
chosen to have a vasectomy as a wife a
woman who I will never experience being
pregnant
I will never experience giving birth I
will never experience raising our own
child and we have zero intention of
adopting or fostering we don't want to
raise a child we are very content with
the people that we help online we have
so many young people saying you're like
my online mum and dad so we feel like
God so all all 140 people who watched my
last YouTube video I claim you as my
children you know that's that's like the
worst delusion of all and on the other
hand if somebody sent me an email like
that if someone sent me an email saying
they felt like I'm their dad just feel
like oh my god that's the process
there probably are people who feel that
way about me but they keep it bottled up
contained those emotions just keep them
inside you should be ashamed of yourself
you feel that way well I'm not your
father well okay but you actually offer
moral lessons yeah like in life advice
and you have a lot of different
experiences and that you talk about in
your channel like I can see people being
like yeah like to me like but I'm also
I'm also self-loathing you know I'm also
you know like I really don't set myself
up to be this moral figure whenever
people want to get into this kind of
pissing contest with me about who's
moral and who's iam or who's better than
Who
whereas currently some other youtubers
turn to I always just come out the gate
and say yeah look I'm a terrible person
you know let's start on that basis look
I totally own the fact that I'm a
terrible person now where's this where
this conversation gonna go from here I
was just thinking like in comparison to
I don't really watch their channels but
I was you know they got mukbangs school
yeah right
you opened up a mukbang video no like
okay so look there are some anything
well there are some people who are in
such a low situation lives who are so
depressed that they feel like that's
their mom sitting there watching this
woman do a mukbang they feel like that's
a paternal relationship I can understand
that but that's that's dark man if
people write to you and say yeah
watching your mug bang I feel like
you're mine and you're gonna come on
YouTube and boast like me to have it's
cuz I have my talk to YouTube you should
be weeping yourself to sleep and if you
believe that and the people on the
other side of the equation should be
weeping themselves to sleep at night
also this is tragedy being
misrepresented as triumph raising
children from a distance via social
media and we're very contained never
really hate on the idea of having
children it definitely was expected of
me as a woman but also I have a European
background and you know getting married
having children is just part of the
course that's what we do I remember at
one stage was thinking I would like to
experience that she said like it's a
European thing like I think it's just an
everywhere thing very good I think
there's pressure on women to have kids
and like every society China
yeah if you haven't gotten married by
the time that you're thirty year
basically an old maid yeah the odds are
slim for you that's right sure yeah I
think think there are pressures I just
assumed she was she was alluding to
something we don't know that's like like
it's a euphemism you know I have a
European background and like people in
the audience know what she male that's
what I assume oh I mean yeah I assumed
there's something more to that story I
have unknown to me so regular viewers
will know what she said to get yes being
pregnant I thought it was quite freaky
like having someone grow inside
exactly any lien and I used to think of
it as more of an experiment than
something that I really hate Lee wanted
to do I didn't have strong maternal
instincts I don't feel until I was about
I think 29 30 years old and the main
reason for that was that we were living
in Thailand and we'd spend our weekends
volunteering at a orphanage and this was
amazing this was the first time that we
were in real contact with babies and we
loved those kids we had a ball they
became ours we were their mum and dad
they were our children and this is the
number one reason why I'm making this
video too honest to you I mean we can
joke around all you want but I think
this is a really serious sick sad
delusion and when I saw this video for
the first time a couple years ago now
December 2015 I guess you know I sent
them an email
I assume was an email it's possible some
other kind of text message but I thing
was an email and I said look you know
you guys need to recognize you're saying
you felt like these were your children
no you know just straight up no you had
no responsibility for these kids you
know they got the photographs here of
them playing games these kids you didn't
you know put them to bed at night that's
not your crib you're not responsible for
their education in their lives and so on
you you have no sense of responsibility
you're not making up in the middle of
the night with nightmares that your kid
is okay which I had not only when I was
with my daughter but after I was
separated from my daughter you don't
have any of the agony short-term or
long-term of responsibility and
responsibility is a huge part of being a
parent you were a tourist who paid a fee
to spend a couple of hours with a kid in
a in an orphanage you know but I mean
for you to say on camera that you were
their parent and they were your children
well then you abandoned them didn't you
so for a couple of days or a couple of
weeks and in our long she doesn't say
you were a part-time babysitter for
these kids and that's it and if you
don't if you don't really know and don't
really appreciate how deep the
difference is between that and being
their parent or they're being your child
you know not just in the level of
feelings although everything else you
know a shame on
you I think that's really shameful I
think that's really a dangerous delusion
that they're spreading here and I also
want to say you know orphanage tourism
is itself dangerous you don't think it's
damaging for these kids so what they
have a different couple of white
washed-up hippies make donations to play
make-believe foster parent for a couple
of weeks and then get on the next
airplane to the beach to go swimming you
know if you felt like they were your
kids you'd be haunted by a sense of
guilt you know after after leaving them
behind and I hadn't I knew one couple
who were in that situation but so the
kids were fairly grown up they were
looking to adopt it's two kids they were
brother and sister so they were really
involved they were doing the paperwork
they don't set out they were gonna adopt
these two kids in Cambodia I don't know
how old the kids were but from the whole
way it was told to me it seemed like
they were old enough to kind of reason
and talk with them so these were you
know orphans but you know not not tiny
little newborns or something and then
the dude out of the couple he had a
motorcycle accident it was either a
motorcycle of one of those
four-wheel-drive type of things some of
that and injured his spine they just
left town they just had to evacuate from
Cambodia of England and go get surgery
for spine and they're scarred for life
you know and then they never adopted the
kids they never know oh so they you know
they were just in those startup phases
but I was that was the question was of
responsibility and taking on
responsibility for these kids right
through to when they go to university or
whenever it is whenever they get their
own job and achieve independence which
is normally about five years after you
graduate University in this century
minutes it's a long term commitment but
no you you don't know what it's like you
know sorry that what I'm gonna just go
to that vegan couple you know kind of
shame on you for saying this and I think
any parent watching this would really
cringe I know the word cringe is
overused but it's it's cringe-worthy to
hear someone in her position claim that
she knows what it's like to be a parent
and that these were her kids and vice
versa you want to weigh in mm-hm
hit that play button
aunt was so so strong I've hummed a very
special bond if the bond was so strong
why did you leave like that is
to me if you said the bond was so strong
that you stayed for five years I'd be
like okay I respect that the bond was so
strong it meant so much to me until I
got my next airplane ticket and went to
the beach and carried on my parent
vacation life though the bomb was so
stronger than I went skiing and forget
it but like what are you talking about
so you spent a couple of weeks with
these kids you kept these photos and
forgot about where were they today you
know like the bond was so strong that
you really enjoyed those two weeks and
then you know it's sick you and you and
she believes this and she's encouraging
others to have this kind of delusion you
know no you didn't have a strong bond
again when I was separated for my
daughter believe me I woke up with
Acadian golden nightmares
you'd wake up in the middle of the night
with the this pure evolutionary instinct
of whereas my daughter is my daughter
okay you know look it's not even a
nightmare you're not dreaming it's an
instinct as pure and raw as if you walk
into a dark room and there's a snake
coiled in the corner hissing at you you
know so you may not have had experience
of that but if you have it's not even
fear but you have this instinct that
fills in your mind there's a snake in
the corner you know it'll leaps out at
you your whole mind you know becomes
very clear and bright you got millions
of years of evolution behind you for
that kind of reaction
there are moments like that where you
feel instinct without any of the
intermediate layers of cognition and
imagination and reason where you know
your mind reacts sure I wake up in the
middle of the night you know where is my
daughter is my daughter okay it's awful
that's what it's like being bonded to a
child you know it's and you know living
love it's because for the first year of
my daughter's life I was with her 24/7
I didn't even a job I was a full-time
stay-at-home parent and hold her and
cradled her and Walker and feed her and
you know wipe her bum and all this all
the stuff you do I don't know if you did
any of that with these kids but
fundamentally I mean there's a you know
there's a there's a crash in the
background there there's a there's a cot
there's a baby's you know crib you
didn't buy that crib you didn't assemble
that crib
you didn't sit there next to that crib
reading a book while the kid was
sleeping you know I don't think you even
cooked the food and his stuff you know
because a fully functioning orphanage
and I I don't think you even knew one
percent of what it means to be a parent
with two children a boy and a girl and
the girl in particular very very strong
connection we just loved each other and
that was the only time in months where
is she now they just love each other but
you didn't adopt her you didn't ever go
back you didn't well what do you think
does she send you email now cuz you're
so into being an Internet parent a
social media parent you can't she
something is you're crying it said it
said but the the self-deception makes it
worse in my life that I actually thought
yeah I definitely want to be a mother
when I have children I wanted to adopt
this girl
we looked into adoption and from that
point we were definitely thinking of
starting a family we continued with the
idea of wanting to have a family for
some years and we were preparing for
that kind of mentally we weren't vegan
for that time at the orphanage and we
didn't know a lot of things about the
reasons why we would ultimately choose
not to have children at that stage so it
was very interesting going from that
feeling that was very very strong don't
get me wrong I mean oh my gosh like my
heart was breaking and I really wanted a
baby I wanted to experience
breastfeeding I just thought it was all
wonderful so to go from that to having
decided not to have children was quite a
journey quite a process then again all
the details are in the other
videos that with lint what was
interesting is the last time we came
together sexually before the operation
was really really emotional for me I was
kind of thinking like oh my god this is
it this is my last chance of ever being
a mother and I remember thinking oh well
if the condom breaks and I happen to
fall pregnant oh but that's just the
universe giving us a sign we were meant
to have a baby and that will just be it
well of course that was never gonna
happen and it obviously didn't happen
but I was actually called hashtag
condoms I did cry that night it was just
like this the finality of it sunk in and
yes of course you can freeze your sperm
for later on and you can also have the
operation reversed but we knew that once
we made this decision we didn't want to
do either of those options later on so
it was very much a final oh this is it
this is happening now
post vasectomy operation completely
different feeling I felt like a thousand
tons of pressure and weight worth lifted
from my shoulders once he got the snip
it just felt so right and so a hundred
percent in the decision and I've never
ever looked back in fact I actually
found like there was more I don't want
to call it doubt but kind of going over
the pros and cons more before the
operation and once the operation
happened I was like a hundred percent
this is perfect spot on I feel so good
about this I've never even thought about
it twice with any doubt any hesitation
I'm so so happy that we decided this so
I think it actually became easier once
the operation but I noticed there's no
consideration for the orphan or the
orphans plural that you were so wanted
to you're claiming they were your kids
you could have a vasectomy and still
adopt those kids or just move in next to
the orphanage and see them regularly
just be a regular member of the support
staff at that orphanage or something to
be a part of their lives that way you
don't even have to adopt them you could
just you could just make it a point to
go there three days a week teach the kid
English or whatever you don't speak Thai
you don't speak Thai or Cambodian or any
other language it's not like you're
inspired enough to sit down hit the
books and learn a language that I taught
myself while chopping firewood
and doing humanitarian work in villages
of no electricity blah blah blah
I didn't you know yeah but you know
these guys obviously have the wealth and
the leisure to live this way both on
permanent vacation and to go and do with
the volunteer work so you probably had
the wealth and leisure to make a
positive impact in those kids lives even
if you're just an english-speaking
[ __ ] it can't get your act together
to learn the language that those kids
speak but that's sorry but that's I want
a cast rate on that because you're not
volunteering in Norwich in New York City
where the kids would speak English
you're not volunteering in an orphanage
and you know London England this is
Thailand
what possible venue and you guys are not
trained educators they're not qualified
to be teachers they're not qualified
through child care work which as you
know has very definite credentials
attached to it and you never made the
effort to learn the language so you
you self-entitled Dharma tourist what
makes you think you can take care of
these kids at a minimum they should be
taking care of us someone who speaks the
same language they do when you were 2
years old how good were you at coping
with a complete stranger speaking a
foreign language as your primary
caregiver and then them cutting out when
they want to get back on their vacation
schedule go something sorry
it's dark I mean it's it's dark it's
funny too I don't even see the vasectomy
itself you know as an operation this way
because it's really easy to manage
pregnancy within a monogamous
relationship I don't really see a
vasectomy at the point being to prevent
your husband from it you pray I think
the vasectomy
then you're confident your husband isn't
going to get some other [ __ ] pregnant
because like there are so many ways with
too
in a regular relationship it's really
not hard to manage pregnancy and lack
thereof I know and by the way my dad had
nine kids and then he had a vasectomy so
we know so we know we know he didn't get
never be traded after that
he maxed out at nine operation was just
done with then beforehand because you've
kind of got a foot in both worlds like
should we should aware yes no once it's
done it's done and then it's just easy
and I know a lot of women are saying but
what about our natural instincts are
maternal instincts it's natural to have
a baby to be a mother
and that's 100 percent right and I'm not
disagreeing with that but we have
created a very unnatural world so
following our natural instincts does not
always match up or marry up with the
artificial crazy world yeah I agree with
this I think that is a good reason to
not have kids because it's really like
trying to raise a child in today's world
is totally different than how you would
in a tribal society you know you have
you would have more help in a tribal
society you would have just more time
with your child I mean most most women
most parents want to get back to work
and they don't have as much time with
their children as they would and in the
past like it just a biological like
instinct level like what we I think I
mean you know I think there is no
natural Society I think in each culture
in each society yeah different people
would have to make that choice for
different reasons if they get to make
the choice but you know I think you know
a lot of societies women didn't even
have that choice yeah yeah absolutely a
lot of traditional societies women
didn't choose who they married you know
it's arranged by their parents or what
have you but yeah if we're talking about
being able to make a choice sure you
know
different different cultures and
different levels of Technology dictate
you know different choices but for most
of human history in terms of the first
pregnancy with women is like a 50%
chance they're gonna die and so the
second pregnancy if there were much
safer now if you survive your first your
first pregnancy then you're likely to
survive a second yeah
but it was pretty much flip the coin so
for most of our history a life-and-death
decision you know for the mother let
alone for the the fate of the child and
ever after yes ideally in a perfect
ideal world Luke and I would have very
much enjoyed having our own children and
unraised them whoa so I actually wasn't
expecting to go there for me that's a
plot twist yeah I didn't think she'd
blame the world for why they don't have
kids you see I don't see that way at all
I think it's a judgment call about who
you are I didn't watch the other video
that she mentioned mentioned that she
said that she didn't know they weren't
vegan at the time that they were at his
orphanage and they didn't know the
reasons for going vegan and I assume
they think it must be like knowing about
I clogged ecological damage and the
future of our planet in an environment
futures but but look to me that's that's
I mean look so I got a cousin who's a
gambling addict you know compulsive
gambler for him to make the decision not
to have kids okay pretty straightforward
but it's about who he is it's about what
he's capable of etc to make the decision
because of the on the basis of what the
world is I I don't know if I can get
behind that you know I just I think
that's though I think you've got it the
wrong way around I just don't think
that's the way to think about what you
were talking about in your discussion
with ask yourself you know like you're
okay with putting yourself put it
raising a child in Compton or whatever
like a lot of people would say that
there not a lot of people are just you
know they'd see doom on the horizon okay
look regardless of whether it's you know
Compton or Berkeley California or London
or Cambodia or Thailand wherever you're
living having a child is a hundred
percent your responsibility so it's a
hundred percent your
or you know your glory or whatever if
you if you do it right I just see it as
a hundred percent you if you can't live
if you can't cope with life in Thailand
you can't cope a lot of people can't so
don't have a kid you know if you can't
cope with life in Compton or if you have
any limit I just don't see that as it as
a decision I just don't see this line
you can pin on the world or pin on the
city of New Living it you know whether
it's you know Compton or Chiang Mai you
know I just I just see that that being
an example of a decision that has to be
a hundred percent on you you know like
okay a lot of people shouldn't drive a
car that bad vision they have attention
deficit disorder I new guy had a nervous
disorder disorder of the nervous system
or you know he had these peculiar
twitches and I'd been in the car with
him driving he was a member of the Green
Party yeah I was like all right you know
like okay you're that you got through
you got a driver's license this way was
amazing you know his whole face would
seize up and so his hands these Wow okay
periodically he'd twitch out this way
alright I think a lot of people should
voluntarily choose not to drive a car
but I wouldn't really pin that on the
world different places you live you know
different circumstances different you
know traffic is better or worse or the
roads are safer but you got to make that
decision based on who you are I think
that's kind of a hundred percent
absolutely your own responsibility right
you know what the world notwithstanding
yeah but look millions of people in
Thailand are having babies millions of
people in Compton are F babies you know
none of these places are a warzone and
of course what you see is even in a war
zone as long as you're a few absolutely
a few kilometers back from where the
live fire is people still make the
decision that babies it's just not a
scenario that we see is feasible in the
world that we have collectively created
so I have found that that maternal
instinct very much died down well before
we decided to have the peseta me I still
got to say that little girl in the
orphanage so you decided the world
wrong you just decided that world's gone
to so so that kid so that kid
doesn't need your help let you know it
this this actually is kind of incoherent
to me in a pretty profound level again
if you decided because it was who you
are if you decided that you are not a
positive influence for that you wouldn't
be a good parent yeah my cousin he's a
he's a compulsive gambler okay whatever
you know maybe he's got other good
qualities maybe not but you know if you
make that decision then obviously that
means both you wouldn't adopt or
whatever but you're fronting on this
idea that you were this kid's parent
that you have this really deep
connection etc etc and then it just
seems to be disposable for these pretty
evanescent reasons and it hasn't come
back I'm now 35 and almost a half years
old
so I'm entering my 36th year and I feel
completely fine with this decision I
don't have any regrets at all and I'm
also really glad that I just say if if
what she's saying is true it may be
but if it's true so there's a
little girl who was deeply bonded with
you and he thought you were gonna adopt
her and become your mom do you think
she's left with regrets for the rest of
her life
there was a wealthy white couple who did
long-distance cycling who were gonna
adopt her and you suddenly decided she
doesn't matter you know I mean it's
up might my biological daughter I
mean you know yeah this weird situation
if she is my biological daughter but
because the court dates have been so
spread out because the French court
systems has been such a disaster and
because of my ex-wife's incredibly
immoral misconduct within that legal
system we've had periods of time where
my daughter has no memory of Who I am
where she meets me like a complete
stranger you know I mean you know so
what you want me to say I have no
regrets I think it's like even my
daughter would read you know at least
hypothetically you know you think this
kid has no regrets I don't know II think
the the rest of the people at the
orphanage have no regrets or owned up to
it and admit that what you were doing at
that orphanage was just Dharma
tourism it was no more meaningful than
claiming used to be a Buddhist monk
because you spent two weeks to put a
smartass theory on a Dharma tourism
program there were there were some
there's some one a series where two
weeks would feel like a long time there
are some but that's not what the the
white tourists do they just - they just
this kind of but you know to me
that's there's you know either you kind
of own up to your on one side
of it or you recognize the tragedy on
the other side of it so those kids are
now still with that at that they're
still at that orphanage but they're all
five years older I guess you had your
personal growth and you say you've got
no regrets
what about them at tombos maternal
instincts that I was feeling back when I
was 29 and 30 years old because they
passed so in the heat of the moment yes
it was a hundred percent so powerful and
strong and I really want to talk baby
but that passed so it's cool she's being
honest she's being real and I appreciate
that but like I don't think the question
of whether or not my cousin
should have kids is about his feelings I
don't think that's the question you know
I think it's about his capability I
think it's about what he has to offer
right now back when I was a single male
teaching myself lotion chopping firewood
and boiling lentils and learning Pali
and doing research and humanitarian work
back when I was doing that why would I
not have gone to a an orphanage and done
this kind of volunteer work because I
didn't think I had anything to offer you
know that's a different judgment
entirely it's not about my feelings you
know what I mean and again once you
offer that if you really do have a
meaningful connection with these kids if
you do find you have something positive
offer you know now what now now you're
in a position of there's that big word
with the letter R again responsibility
abdication response if you take on that
responsibility and it means something
and you're not a piece of you're
not a crackhead you really have
something to offer well what then you
know what is that what does that mean
anyway I have read a lot of reports by
the way evaluating some of these
Christian charities in Thailand that
have tourists fly-in and the tourists
very often our drug addicts who've just
gone through rehab they've gone through
a Christian rehab and then they fly over
to Thailand and do you know volunteer
work with these orphans and most of them
they're not even orphans it's another
wee
aspect that they have living parents
who've dropped them off there for
various reasons and the parents still
come and visit too so things get complex
quick but you know and they're people
who don't have again don't have any
education in caregiving or being you
know kindergarten teachers don't have
any preparation of doing that they don't
have any of the language skills
necessary they understand anything about
the culture so you know how would you
have felt even if you take the racial
element out of it so what if you were a
kid it was an orphan in the United
States or Canada and you were just being
taken care of by Russian tourists who
showed up only speaking Russian you had
no common language who flew in for two
weeks and then flew out as one stop on
their their cross-country tour so they
could have these deep emotional feelings
with you and then move on I'm not gonna
say it's exploiting the kids but I mean
obviously there's a way that those it's
a way that those orphanages raise raise
money is by you know bringing these
people in and soliciting donations
there's requiring donations from them
for doing this work that's what the
Christians were doing - it's a way of
you know reaching out to people's you
know most basic instincts and getting
the money out of their wallet to support
yours for your organization I think it
takes a lot for an organization to
refuse to do that
in those circumstances to say no the
role of educator is not something that
can be done by a tourist no you're not
qualified to play with these kids on the
floor just because you donated money to
us you know to say no we're a
professional organization and we're not
going to do that it's a very hard thing
to say if you're in Cambodia Laos or in
this case Thailand Thailand is not that
poor Thailand is really not a
third-world country they don't really
have the excuse but they got a lot of
our friends in Thailand they got a lot
of mothers who have an in their kids
enjoy it because again I was in the
humanitarian sector and I've read about
it and I talked to other people working
in the sector and yeah I talked to a lot
of people have that experience there
again but most of the quote-unquote
orphans in Thailand are not or focus
discover new information that would
shake my life forever so
I'm really really grateful that we
didn't act in the moment and respond to
those innate feelings and I do want to
mention that a few years ago when we
were seriously considering starting a
family a friend about a mother of about
a seven or eight year old son
she was also married confided in us that
she really wasn't happy with how her
life turned out she loved her son but
basically she said to us that if she
could turn back time and make the
decision again she would not have fallen
pregnant so she told us how hard it was
how many challenges there were and it
was just a very realistic view to this
romantic idea that sold about raising
children and that was a real wake-up
call because from the outside they look
like this happy beautiful perfect family
but inside she was still crying like the
kid was like saying seven or eight years
old and she was still having moments of
breaking down and this is hard and I
didn't I've actually seen I've seen
mostly you know far left-wing feminists
talk about this this issue of
romanticization of pregnancy and
childbirth as opposed to the reality or
what you ought to think if you agree
with this person ideologically you know
so I'm a nihilist I openly describe
myself as an historical nihilist and my
nihilistic perspective on this is as
soon as we are adults when you are an
adult you take responsibility for your
own ideology doesn't matter that your
parents raised you Catholic it's your
choice now you're responsible for your
religion is you're responsible for your
beliefs doesn't matter that you grew up
with a romanticized notion of car
ownership there's a huge thing 1950s 60s
even 70s a lot of people grew up with
romanticize guess what the reality of
cars is you don't guess what you've got
a romanticized notion now you've got a
deprogram yourself you've got to figure
out what the reality is in so many ways
in terms of its financial cost the
ecological impacts there were just a lot
of reasons to be disillusioned with car
ownership social impacts - sure cities
are structured and I come from I've come
from the Motor City I mean right it's
very obvious that yeah it was built for
cars not for people as opposed to Venice
the differences in culture in a city
where you can walk around one place to
the other versus yeah you drive
everywhere and you know whenever I was
hanging with my professors at UVic it
just was so even in Saskatchewan it's
hilarious to me these people their lives
revolve around parking meters
you know boat parking being this huge
stress and Sun so ok you grew up with a
romanticized view of car ownership is
that going to be your Excuse till you're
65 years old you're an adult now what is
romantic and what is not is up to you
your parents may have told you that
dandelions were poisonous you're an
adult now you know better you can make
dandelion tea you can make dandelion
wine you can grow a whole garden full of
dandelions if you want to you can you
can make dandelion coffee that's right
you can make all these things out of
dandelions you can farm dandelions in
your backyard if you want to
whether it is a weed or a vegetable is
up to you to decide your parents
ideologies not yours society's
ideologies not yours it is nobody's
responsibility but yours and yeah you
may have you may have really grown up
with I mean to some extent I sympathize
like old childhood misconceptions you
may have grown up with romanticized
notions about having kids but it's on
you it's 100% your responsibility to
grow that to make those decisions and
have nobody to blame you know nobody to
blame nobody to thank but yourself
what's gonna be like this and it was
just a reality check so we need the
lastest well what if you regret the
decision to not have children we always
think of this woman and what if you
regret the decision that you have had
children gain what so I just wanted to
give this different perspective I just
say the the thing with orphanages in
adoption it puts it into a surreal
contrast do you think that kid regrets
that she doesn't have parents didn't
that kid like the kids gonna look back
and wonder if only I was cuter if only
somehow I snuggled up to these people or
only somehow I'd manage to convince them
to take me of their lives and take
responsibility for me instead of being a
ward of the state I would have grown up
with all the advantages of these
teaching me how to ride a bike
make a vegan salad or whatever you know
whatever they got to teach I don't know
their background um you know maybe they
got a lot maybe they got a lot to share
but obviously you know I mean it's an
interesting way to it's way to look at
it
well okay your parents with no children
but you you claimed you had a parental
relationship with this whole classroom
full of full kids and those are now all
kids with no parents so I don't think
your regrets are the only ones to be
considered here if you're making that
claim deep on the topic if you have any
questions ladies please post them down
below and thank you so much for watching
I'll see you in the next video bye for
now so that got dark quick closing
thoughts from you you went through a
period of your life when you thought
you'd never want to have kids no mana
was that like ten years long or
something something like that no maybe
less eight years of some well no I mean
uh you know I expected it but you know I
I can relate to quite a lot that you
mention you know like it's expected of
you yeah so you know I was with my
ex-boyfriend for over six years and his
family was really urging me to think
about getting married no kids
my parents were you know expecting that
I would hold off on that until I had my
career figured out I agreed with them
you know I wasn't I wasn't eating to
have a kid and start a family um but
also it was just the relationship that I
was in and I expected that I would be in
that relationship for the rest of my
life yeah um that really did influence
how I viewed it and it be it was clear
pretty soon into the relationship that I
I didn't feel like the
um I didn't want to have a kid with him
because just what he was into you and I
didn't think he would change I didn't
think he would really you know get his
act together if we did have a kid so
look I just wanna say for some reason
that I was shocked people when I said
that they just never thought of that
people asked me do you want to have kids
obviously before I had a kid I would
just say it depends on the woman I'm
with yeah because you know when I was
with my blond ex-girlfriend we were
together for years like you know we
might as well have been married it was
that kind of close long term
relationship but with her I would have
never added kids I think she would have
been terrible parent and yeah wet cetera
it was just no so if I stayed with her
forever then that would have been never
having kids basically or yeah well yes
he adopting is kind of a different
question I mean I never got into that I
mean maybe it would have been possible
to adopt her mmm with a bunch of other
circumstances of it no I would have
never had kids with her but then some
other woman some other circumstance some
other deal sure then you know I would
you know so you know obviously you know
it's easy for me to relate to that for a
lot of women that's gonna be the same
you're looking at the family unit you're
creating and in our culture in this day
and age the family unit is pretty much
just two people it's very rare to meet
people who are even in a group of four
or raising kids it happens but it's it's
rare and that's I think ultimately
because the nature of job security and
job insecurity the way people have to
move around for whatever gig they can
get so and so forth yeah yeah yeah
anyway I'm Sam no no no I mean for for
quite a few years there I because I
expected to be in this relationship
forever
I like you know I I did feel kind of I
don't know I guess I just felt gonna
mm-hm
I had mixed feelings about it I was
ambivalent cuz you know like I I had
expected of it was expected of me to
have a family and I plan to at the time
I was plant trying to plan a career so
that I could
have kids and afford to have kids
because I was clear that I would be like
the main breadwinner so I was like you
know it was at this point where I was
trying to decide what if I should go
into a certain career mostly for the
money to have this this you know
responsibilities mostly on my end and so
you know there was a certain part that
was like a part of me that was like
relieved that I didn't have to be
worried about that and I'm sure you know
I don't really know why why that began
couple didn't have kids but you just
listen for explanation you stole another
wife okay right go you just throw them
explain why they didn't have kids yeah
so you know I don't know if they felt
like they they couldn't afford it but
you know I would know evidently not
that's that's not the reason at all
sorry they're they're wealthy enough to
live this permanent vacation lifestyle
and I'm happy for them I kind of wish
they'd do something more positive with
their wealth and leisure but this is
what they do
money is nothing I was realistic because
I was with somebody that didn't have
college education it was clear he would
never have college education so that
really limits what you can tell what you
can earn and what what kind of positions
you could have in the future so for me I
was like thinking that this this would
be something that the response would be
responsibility would fall on me so
anyway yeah it but I also was you know
you you you build up like you said you
you have a romanticized view er you
build up like what what weight kind of
life you're gonna want and and I did
think you know I'm a responsible person
I think I would be a good parent so like
there was a certain part of that oh yeah
and like when I would talk to my mom
about it she was she was like like no
like you were the type of person that
needs to have kids because like you're
functionally you're you're like you know
but look to stick with the car or the
car crash analogy the fact that you can
drive a car doesn't mean you should are
you lost
yeah like I agree like you know look
look not everyone's capable of driving a
car not everyone's capable of being a
good parent but the fact that you are
capable doesn't mean that's the right
decision for you but yeah yeah yeah so I
guess I'm merely aunty antenatal estate
you know like so in some ways it was
easy to accept Oh also like I did not
grow up babysitting like I was youngest
to my family I didn't have any family
members that had young children so like
it was kind of easy for me except that I
would that I wouldn't be a parent um but
like there was still you know kind of
wondering like you know she yeah you
know what what it could be like in
anyway so I think part of that was why I
used to peruse the child-free subreddit
because those it's a group of people who
don't have kids but I yeah it's it's
filled with a lot of awful awful posts
but some of them are some of them are
useful and some of them I could relate
to but um yeah I think it probably had
to do with like feeling having mixed
feelings about it and you know like
wanting reassurance that this was the
right decision that I would that I made
because hmm everything else in around me
it was saying like no you should have
kids like and anyway and then she fell
in love with me and then she wants that
gets my blond ex-girlfriend I think she
was really in denial about where she
stood in those issues she really did I
think want to have my baby especially
after an early like six months into the
road ship or something you know but
early on she said no she would never
have kids like she had decided she was
never gonna have kids and you know the
the final like tragicomic moment when we
had already decided to break up because
there were airplane tickets involved so
it was like okay so like two months from
now you'll go back on this airplane kind
of thing and she had a job so it was
like okay so you're gonna finish
teaching she was teaching English and so
when her job and she'd go back to Canada
on this kind of thing and she was taking
those pregnancy vitamins those prenatal
vitamins during you know our last two
months together whatever it was you know
I forget exactly maybe it was our last
three weeks together I forget but it was
you know that the date was on the
calendar the airplane ticket have been
purchased we knew we were gonna break up
and you know she said in this remarkable
show they said oh yeah you know I'm
taking these vitamins because you know
you never know it's kind of it's like
and I just said to her straight I said
look I don't know what you're thinking
or what you're fantasizing here and
maybe you haven't really thought it
through yourself but if you get pregnant
now at a stage in the relationship where
we both know we're gonna break up and
what there's no doubt in my mind I never
wanna have a child with you you know
that would just be a you know a tragedy
for the both of us and for the child oh
now this is oh there's almost a verbatim
quote and you know me I I'm very
creative remaining calm when the woman
in life is loosing her toddler is upset
is like I didn't say it in a mean or
angry way I really was speed you know
and she immediately just felled the
ground weeping you know she just burst
into tears we were at home by the way
it's not like we're in a shopping mall
or something when this conversation
happen yeah I think through the whole
relationship she was in a state of
cognitive dissonance over overused terms
like I think she was really in denial
but the extent to which she wanted to
have a baby she specifically wanted to
have my baby because she really thought
of me as a good person and as someone
with a lot of redeeming quality and my
DNA which you know a lot of ways I feel
I'm not living up to my genetic
potential to be quite honest I know
always I'm a genetic underachiever but
you know I think I think that really was
something she she wanted and maybe
didn't want to admit to herself
you know that was what she wanted even
when she had already decided she would
shoot break up with me you know I can
really but I wasn't it wasn't the first
six months it's the first two weird that
I was like yeah I want that now yeah she
had a really cute baby crazy period it
would have been more fun well and if
you've got and bright you you'd have a
baby right about now we're coming up on
our nine
month anniversary so if you'd if you
just stuck with the program we could be
going back to Canada with you having a
big belly and you'd be you be in your
final trimester now go back and give
birth in a Canadian Hospital yeah but
you know that's another fear people have
you know why is living in poverty so
scary because so me and my ex-wife when
we made the decision to have a kid you
know we had our short-term financial
situation together we are both
University educated she had a PhD and I
had my glorious BA in reality my ex-wife
had just destroyed all of my career in
education plans like right at that time
so all of my career plans had just been
cancelled which Mehta was available for
for raising a child she just destroyed
everything I was working on everything I
was planning to do with the rest of my
life but be that as it may he had this
opportunity but for sure you know I
think we were realistic and it's like
well yeah you know we have enough money
for the next couple of years but sure we
can end up living in poverty you know
again we've both her and I of them
research she was an anthropologist and
I'm more of a political and historical
person but I've I have lived in poverty
I've lived around people apart
I've studied poverty like even from an
economic perspective like studied the
reality of what is poverty and you know
I mean um it's a fear but you can you
can get over it and I think for a lot of
people it's a choice like whether it's a
risk of poverty because like look my
ex-wife has a PhD but she could be
unemployed for the rest of her life
still I still entirely possible she's
got a lifetime unemployment or
underemployment ahead of her it doesn't
guarantee or a job we can look in that
situation and say ok we can have a kid
and live in poverty and we could not
have a kid if live in poverty anyway but
you know maybe this is a new visitor
risk worth taking
but obviously poverty you know poverty
carries stigma but doesn't really carry
with it danger you know is that really
something we should be afraid of
something else you don't have medical
insurance if you can't afford medical
insurance but you can but you can meet
those people and you can live with them
and you can see their struggle and see
how they raise kids because I did in
Cambodia and Kimbo you want to tell me
about bad healthcare the poorest people
in America better health care
than the richest people in Cambodia you
know what I mean and and they do it and
you see them do it Emile I'm sorry but I
those are not insuperable barriers those
are superable barriers they're their
problems their struggles I know I know
but you can see I say I I think if you
have that experience to live with us we
can overcome those fears you can get
comfortable with the reality of what
poverty means especially when you talk
about moderate poverty because it wasn't
like my ex-wife and I were signing up to
go work on a rice farm in Cambodia which
is also something I've something I've
visited and studied and no book you know
you know I know about the reality of
what that would be like and millions of
those people raised their kids and
they're happy and the kids grow up happy
and you know a lot of ways they're less
neurotic than people living in the
suburbs of Los Angeles appear on um the
look on level of fear I mean I think
fear and pure instinct is one of the
most neglected topics in modern
philosophy I can remember a time when I
was really afraid to be bitten by a
leash now in Sri Lanka there are a lot
of leeches little men leeches there used
to be in Laos then we cut down all the
jungles they're not really many leeches
and Laos anymore
so I knew living in these places and
doing humanitarian work and going to put
his temples a lot of Buddhist temples or
in the last little piece of jungle
temple Buddhist temples seemed to
prevent deforestation you know I knew I
was going to be exposed to to leashes
and there was a time when I felt a very
natural fear and this is millions of
years of evolution it wasn't
psychological you know I mean it's not
like doesn't come out of a childhood
trauma or neurosis nothing it's a pure
you know instinctual evolutionary fear
and then you know what I had the
experience of leeches biting me you know
for several times and so on he's a
really no big deal it is really no big
deal and I mean I guess I could give a
counter example I remember I had no fear
at all of being stung by wasps when I
was in Laos and all the other Lao people
were terrified of this and I allowed
myself to be stung on the hand but one
of these tropical jungle Wassa then I
found out why they were terrified
because those Lost's in the jungles of
Laos are about 10,000
times more venomous than an American
wasp by the way you know my whole hand
you know like doubled more than doubled
in in thickness my hand and yeah yeah
yeah so it was really some getting bit
by that wasp was it memorable
no by the way another fasten thing the
wasp if they bite you on the scalp sting
you on the scalp it permanently
discolours your hair so there are a lot
of people now who have like a circle of
blonde hair and the rest of the hair is
jet black caused by the wasp enamines
yeah yeah and it's either permanent over
the last decades but like yeah you saw
that because it's pretty common like a
stun but yeah because you know think it
trapped in your haircut hey yeah you
know these you know fear you know and a
lot of times what we're talking to yours
fear of the unknown you don't know what
it's like to be bitten by a leaf you
know a leech bites you on the ankle and
you take the time and you you roll the
leech off your skin you don't even kill
them by the way it was a practicing but
us at the time I wouldn't kill the leech
without killing it I'd roll it off my
skin and put it on a leaf and keep going
it's not it's not that big a deal and I
don't know I mean poverty you know
poverty may be scary to you in a lot of
ways but in terms of you know what
matters to me in my life you know my
sense of dignity in my sense of code of
ethics and so on there were a lot of
situations in which I'd choose poverty
over over money especially if the money
I feel is in any way unethical or you
know violates violates my code I don't
want to lie to people to get rich I
don't want to hurt people to get rich or
even to just get out of poverty you know
I'd take I take poverty with my own
strange sense of dignity and I'd passed
it on to my kid I'd say guess what kid
you're living in poverty because I
wouldn't lie cheat steal rob and plunder
you know so you get to be one of those
people yeah that just shows it in so
many ways he'd be a good father
[Applause]
right this is this is the advantages
she's really seen me parenting she knows
exactly what I'm like as a father so
yeah
so at this point it's not hypothetical
anymore whether or not I'd be a good
father but obviously you know anyone
watching this video course there were
huge challenges for both of us just in
terms of earning a living and you know
we're gonna have the joy of going
through that together but I don't think
but in this simple sense I don't think
your personal poverty is it really is a
really compelling reason not to have
children and you know again I really do
kind of despise Canadian culture but
which I mean white english-speaking
Canadian culture I grew up very
dissatisfied with that culture in that
society and you know for that reason it
was an intentional decision that my
daughter does not have a Canadian
passport she has both a French passport
and an American passport and I cut it
off there because I know how terrible
the Canadian education system is and
some and so forth and you know I don't
know when my daughter grows up if
there's some reason why she'd want to
live in Canada rather than France the
United States you know I can imagine you
know we're grading that decision I can
imagine some circumstances if Donald
Trump actually nukes you know to the
civil war or France also good to send it
the Civil War who knows but you know I
could imagine something like that but
with that being said you know even that
even those choices you don't like where
you're living you can move you don't
like living the way you're living you
can change you know you gotta take
you've got to even take responsible that
of course there's a sense in which I can
never take responsibility for Canadian
culture or British Empire culture it's
like when I was talking about genocide
before there's no way you can take your
so much but still you take
responsibility for your place in it and
you say well even though the society I
grew up in it's a bad culture in these
various ways or I personally disagree
with coaching surveys I'm gonna do my
part to raise this child you know with
my culture with my antidote to those
problems in the culture I grow I grew up
in a culture where nobody cares about
reading books or history or
what-have-you
whereas by contrast like a place like
South Korea I totally that's what I
South Korea is very appealing culture to
me a little ways in some ways South
Koreans serve in some ways it's
unpleasant I'm not gonna get into that
here but you know South Korean culture I
looked at that and said wow here's the
culture where people really read books
and really care about politics in
history but I can raise my child sense
these things you know you're not gonna
you're not gonna go out and cut down all
the thorny bushes you know you're gonna
educate your child as to what is and
isn't a thorn so they're not going to
step on a thorn you know what I mean
you're not gonna cover the mountain with
leather you're gonna take a small piece
of leather and make a make a shoe you
know make a shoe out of it so that you
can walk over the whole mountain it's a
non-vegan image that comes from medieval
Buddhism fiction you know but it is it
is a standard logic puzzle where you say
look the solution to the problem isn't
to cover the whole Road with leather
because it will cover the whole mountain
with leather its jetted up just enough
and in that same way to arm your child
with just enough information and
detachment and insight yeah yeah I'm not
saying you know I have a lot of
experience with this and I'm you I mean
I'm a young person you know but in the
limited experience I'm just talking
about my my personal history wasn't with
this with this topic um after I started
dating you I was like well there were
there was a bit of a gap you you you
kind of you started staying in my
apartment and then there was the point
where you set up your own closet and
hung your clothes I think that was that
was when it was really committed right
no you're like okay I'm good no I think
that's fair to say
yeah when you were first dating me for
lack of a better word yeah yeah and I
had this desire to have a kid with you
like I had never had that at all and you
know I was just thinking about it from
this video she was talking about I'm
eternal is I'm not I'm not saying it's
my turtle instinct but like you know
that urge to have a child like I had
never felt that before and that really
did change my perspective on things so
and I'm not saying this will apply to
other people but like like like you said
like you shouldn't if you have this
desire to have a child and it's do if
you're not a crack head if you're not a
gambling addict then you know you should
take that seriously - you should take
like natural desire
seriously - look I I met so many people
in Laos
people who really grew up in poverty who
really wanted to own a car and imagine
their lives to be so much better I
remember reading in a newspaper an
interview it was in The Economist
actually an interview with some people
people in India and I was so pathetic
how they really believed their lives to
be so much better if they only owned a
car and these are these are even people
who owned motorcycles but it would never
own a car this was their big aspiration
in life and you know the article was
talking about this this aspect of
culture it's like well you know you
don't know what you're missing you know
like I know you imagine this and even uh
you know you met Lao people who really
felt their lives to be so much better if
only they could ride a train she's also
really because of that time Laos didn't
have any trains in the whole country you
know they couldn't imagine what it was
like living in a society like Japan or
every day you haul your ass on and off
of the same train like most people
living in Japan are spending more than
an hour a day and that kind of public
transport and it's not a joy and a
delight anymore you know what I mean the
novelty wears off will wears off quickly
so yeah I mean I do think we need to be
very skeptical about that when you're
talking about a desire to have something
you've never had when you're talking
about a desire that's fundamentally
rooted in ignorance and wishful thinking
I think that's always dangerous desire
to have a car or desire to have a child
or what have you but no that's the thing
I don't think it is rooted in ignorance
for me because I don't know I'm like you
know really looked into it like I sure
made like list many times like her I
think the pros and cons and surely I
thought about extensively when you're
talking about a given person in the
abstract and you talk about them feeling
like they want to have a kid or not
feeling like the one I have a kid yeah I
just think it's really worth asking okay
so empirically what's that based and
some people you mention this before your
ex-boyfriend he basically raised as it
raised his own younger brother right
yeah you know were like six years young
on them
younger siblings but they were much
younger so he one was like you're
younger than him and then the other one
was four years younger okay I don't need
to know okay all right so all right so I
was off there but all right there are
some people where they really do have a
very definite sensible raising kids to
be like cuz their own family because the
professional works something like this
sure I'm just saying as a general
warning I think you need to be more than
cautious when you're talking about
desire where the object of that desire
is something that maybe unknown or
unknowable to you even if it's something
as simple as writing the tree don't work
yeah or uh you know what it's gonna mean
to you to have kids and raise kids and
for sure I've known all kinds of people
who feel like we talked about this the
other day their lives are so occupied by
taking care of the kid that they never
get to be who they really are you know
and maybe I would feel differently about
having a kid if I hadn't already done
everything in my life I wanted to do
I've already I've said this before I've
already been everywhere ever wanted to
go like I have I have no desire to ever
travel in South America or Africa
yeah I have no desire to even to travel
again in Cambodia you know Cambodia's
but you know nothing in terms of
everything in terms of philosophy and
you know all the things I wanted to
learn I already learned them so sure I
was definitely a point in my life where
I would never feel resentment against my
child that my child was depriving me the
opportunity to do what I really wanted
to do and I'll for a lot of people it's
the exact opposite yeah where their kid
they feel has cut them off from all
their ambitions or what they could have
been on have you yep your father could
have been a dentist for example okay all
right it's not too late no you can still
go back though sorry did have been
inside joke there all right okay is that
a wrap having kids if you think you
shouldn't do it you probably sure